.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 David Llewellyn-Jones <David.Llewellyn-Jones@cl.cam.ac.uk>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH pico-continuous 8 "2017-07-09"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.mso www.tmac
.SH NAME
pico-continuous \- Continuous authentication service for use with 
.B pam_pico
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pico-continuous
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pico-continuous
service.
.PP
The 
.B pico-continuous
service is usually run as a background service (daemon) and in its default 
configuration is set up to run at startup using 
.BR systemd (1) .
The 
.BR pam_pico (8)
authentication module interacts with the service by dbus and it's the 
service which actually performs the authentication and continuous 
authentication for the module. 
The service should be started, stopped and queried using 
.BR systemctl (1) .
See the 
.B examples 
section for how this can be done.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
However, currently
.B pico-continuous 
doesn't accept any options or parameters.
.SH EXAMPLES
The service should be started, stopped and queried using 
.BR systemctl (1)
. 
For example:
.TP
.B systemctl start pico-continuous
Start the continuous authentication service.
.TP
.B systemctl stop pico-continuous
Stop the continuous authentication service.
.TP
.B systemctl status pico-continuous
Query the status of the continuous authentication service.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pam_pico (8),
.BR pico-pair (8),
.BR pico-test (8)
.SH AUTHOR
pico-continuous was written by 
.URL https://mypico.org "Team Pico".

