.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 David Llewellyn-Jones <David.Llewellyn-Jones@cl.cam.ac.uk>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH pico-test 8 "2017-07-09"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.mso www.tmac
.SH NAME
pico-test \- Perform a test authentication using the
.BR pico-continuous (8) 
service.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pico-test
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pico-test
program.
.PP
The 
.B pico-test
program can be used to test the 
.BR pico-continuous (8)
service. 
It will send dbus messages to the service requesting to authenticate, 
display the returned QR code on the command line and return the result of 
any authentication that the service subsequently performs.
.PP
This allows authentication to be tested without having to go via the PAM 
interface. 
To test the service using the PAM interface, something like 
.BR pamtester (1)
can be used instead.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
However, currently
.B pico-test 
doesn't accept any options or parameters.
.SH EXAMPLES
Use of 
.B pico-test 
is pretty basic.
.TP
.B pico-test
Perform a test authentication. A QR code will be sent to 
.BR stdout (3), 
and the authentication log output will be sent to 
.BR syslog (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pam_pico (8),
.BR pico-pair (8),
.BR pico-continuous (8)
.SH AUTHOR
pico-test was written by 
.URL https://mypico.org "Team Pico".

